<<<<<<< HEAD
                     木兰宽松许可证, 第2版

   木兰宽松许可证， 第2版 
   2020年1月 http://license.coscl.org.cn/MulanPSL2


   您对“软件”的复制、使用、修改及分发受木兰宽松许可证，第2版（“本许可证”）的如下条款的约束：

   0. 定义

      “软件”是指由“贡献”构成的许可在“本许可证”下的程序和相关文档的集合。

      “贡献”是指由任一“贡献者”许可在“本许可证”下的受版权法保护的作品。

      “贡献者”是指将受版权法保护的作品许可在“本许可证”下的自然人或“法人实体”。

      “法人实体”是指提交贡献的机构及其“关联实体”。

      “关联实体”是指，对“本许可证”下的行为方而言，控制、受控制或与其共同受控制的机构，此处的控制是指有受控方或共同受控方至少50%直接或间接的投票权、资金或其他有价证券。

   1. 授予版权许可

      每个“贡献者”根据“本许可证”授予您永久性的、全球性的、免费的、非独占的、不可撤销的版权许可，您可以复制、使用、修改、分发其“贡献”，不论修改与否。

   2. 授予专利许可

      每个“贡献者”根据“本许可证”授予您永久性的、全球性的、免费的、非独占的、不可撤销的（根据本条规定撤销除外）专利许可，供您制造、委托制造、使用、许诺销售、销售、进口其“贡献”或以其他方式转移其“贡献”。前述专利许可仅限于“贡献者”现在或将来拥有或控制的其“贡献”本身或其“贡献”与许可“贡献”时的“软件”结合而将必然会侵犯的专利权利要求，不包括对“贡献”的修改或包含“贡献”的其他结合。如果您或您的“关联实体”直接或间接地，就“软件”或其中的“贡献”对任何人发起专利侵权诉讼（包括反诉或交叉诉讼）或其他专利维权行动，指控其侵犯专利权，则“本许可证”授予您对“软件”的专利许可自您提起诉讼或发起维权行动之日终止。

   3. 无商标许可

      “本许可证”不提供对“贡献者”的商品名称、商标、服务标志或产品名称的商标许可，但您为满足第4条规定的声明义务而必须使用除外。

   4. 分发限制

      您可以在任何媒介中将“软件”以源程序形式或可执行形式重新分发，不论修改与否，但您必须向接收者提供“本许可证”的副本，并保留“软件”中的版权、商标、专利及免责声明。

   5. 免责声明与责任限制

      “软件”及其中的“贡献”在提供时不带任何明示或默示的担保。在任何情况下，“贡献者”或版权所有者不对任何人因使用“软件”或其中的“贡献”而引发的任何直接或间接损失承担责任，不论因何种原因导致或者基于何种法律理论，即使其曾被建议有此种损失的可能性。 

   6. 语言
      “本许可证”以中英文双语表述，中英文版本具有同等法律效力。如果中英文版本存在任何冲突不一致，以中文版为准。

   条款结束 

   如何将木兰宽松许可证，第2版，应用到您的软件
   
   如果您希望将木兰宽松许可证，第2版，应用到您的新软件，为了方便接收者查阅，建议您完成如下三步：

      1， 请您补充如下声明中的空白，包括软件名、软件的首次发表年份以及您作为版权人的名字；

      2， 请您在软件包的一级目录下创建以“LICENSE”为名的文件，将整个许可证文本放入该文件中；

      3， 请将如下声明文本放入每个源文件的头部注释中。

   Copyright (c) [Year] [name of copyright holder]
   [Software Name] is licensed under Mulan PSL v2.
   You can use this software according to the terms and conditions of the Mulan PSL v2. 
   You may obtain a copy of Mulan PSL v2 at:
            http://license.coscl.org.cn/MulanPSL2 
   THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
   See the Mulan PSL v2 for more details.  


                     Mulan Permissive Software License，Version 2

   Mulan Permissive Software License，Version 2 (Mulan PSL v2)
   January 2020 http://license.coscl.org.cn/MulanPSL2

   Your reproduction, use, modification and distribution of the Software shall be subject to Mulan PSL v2 (this License) with the following terms and conditions: 
   
   0. Definition
   
      Software means the program and related documents which are licensed under this License and comprise all Contribution(s). 
   
      Contribution means the copyrightable work licensed by a particular Contributor under this License.
   
      Contributor means the Individual or Legal Entity who licenses its copyrightable work under this License.
   
      Legal Entity means the entity making a Contribution and all its Affiliates.
   
      Affiliates means entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with the acting entity under this License, ‘control’ means direct or indirect ownership of at least fifty percent (50%) of the voting power, capital or other securities of controlled or commonly controlled entity.

   1. Grant of Copyright License

      Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to you a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, use, modify, or distribute its Contribution, with modification or not.

   2. Grant of Patent License 

      Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to you a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, irrevocable (except for revocation under this Section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer for sale, sell, import or otherwise transfer its Contribution, where such patent license is only limited to the patent claims owned or controlled by such Contributor now or in future which will be necessarily infringed by its Contribution alone, or by combination of the Contribution with the Software to which the Contribution was contributed. The patent license shall not apply to any modification of the Contribution, and any other combination which includes the Contribution. If you or your Affiliates directly or indirectly institute patent litigation (including a cross claim or counterclaim in a litigation) or other patent enforcement activities against any individual or entity by alleging that the Software or any Contribution in it infringes patents, then any patent license granted to you under this License for the Software shall terminate as of the date such litigation or activity is filed or taken.

   3. No Trademark License

      No trademark license is granted to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of Contributor, except as required to fulfill notice requirements in Section 4.

   4. Distribution Restriction

      You may distribute the Software in any medium with or without modification, whether in source or executable forms, provided that you provide recipients with a copy of this License and retain copyright, patent, trademark and disclaimer statements in the Software.

   5. Disclaimer of Warranty and Limitation of Liability

      THE SOFTWARE AND CONTRIBUTION IN IT ARE PROVIDED WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. IN NO EVENT SHALL ANY CONTRIBUTOR OR COPYRIGHT HOLDER BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY DIRECT, OR INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING FROM YOUR USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE OR THE CONTRIBUTION IN IT, NO MATTER HOW IT’S CAUSED OR BASED ON WHICH LEGAL THEORY, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

   6. Language

      THIS LICENSE IS WRITTEN IN BOTH CHINESE AND ENGLISH, AND THE CHINESE VERSION AND ENGLISH VERSION SHALL HAVE THE SAME LEGAL EFFECT. IN THE CASE OF DIVERGENCE BETWEEN THE CHINESE AND ENGLISH VERSIONS, THE CHINESE VERSION SHALL PREVAIL.

   END OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   How to Apply the Mulan Permissive Software License，Version 2 (Mulan PSL v2) to Your Software

      To apply the Mulan PSL v2 to your work, for easy identification by recipients, you are suggested to complete following three steps:

      i Fill in the blanks in following statement, including insert your software name, the year of the first publication of your software, and your name identified as the copyright owner; 

      ii Create a file named “LICENSE” which contains the whole context of this License in the first directory of your software package;

      iii Attach the statement to the appropriate annotated syntax at the beginning of each source file.


   Copyright (c) [Year] [name of copyright holder]
   [Software Name] is licensed under Mulan PSL v2.
   You can use this software according to the terms and conditions of the Mulan PSL v2. 
   You may obtain a copy of Mulan PSL v2 at:
               http://license.coscl.org.cn/MulanPSL2 
   THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
   See the Mulan PSL v2 for more details.  
=======
		       The Artistic License 2.0

	    Copyright (c) 2000-2006, The Perl Foundation.

     Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
      of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

This license establishes the terms under which a given free software
Package may be copied, modified, distributed, and/or redistributed.
The intent is that the Copyright Holder maintains some artistic
control over the development of that Package while still keeping the
Package available as open source and free software.

You are always permitted to make arrangements wholly outside of this
license directly with the Copyright Holder of a given Package.  If the
terms of this license do not permit the full use that you propose to
make of the Package, you should contact the Copyright Holder and seek
a different licensing arrangement.

Definitions

    "Copyright Holder" means the individual(s) or organization(s)
    named in the copyright notice for the entire Package.

    "Contributor" means any party that has contributed code or other
    material to the Package, in accordance with the Copyright Holder's
    procedures.

    "You" and "your" means any person who would like to copy,
    distribute, or modify the Package.

    "Package" means the collection of files distributed by the
    Copyright Holder, and derivatives of that collection and/or of
    those files. A given Package may consist of either the Standard
    Version, or a Modified Version.

    "Distribute" means providing a copy of the Package or making it
    accessible to anyone else, or in the case of a company or
    organization, to others outside of your company or organization.

    "Distributor Fee" means any fee that you charge for Distributing
    this Package or providing support for this Package to another
    party.  It does not mean licensing fees.

    "Standard Version" refers to the Package if it has not been
    modified, or has been modified only in ways explicitly requested
    by the Copyright Holder.

    "Modified Version" means the Package, if it has been changed, and
    such changes were not explicitly requested by the Copyright
    Holder.

    "Original License" means this Artistic License as Distributed with
    the Standard Version of the Package, in its current version or as
    it may be modified by The Perl Foundation in the future.

    "Source" form means the source code, documentation source, and
    configuration files for the Package.

    "Compiled" form means the compiled bytecode, object code, binary,
    or any other form resulting from mechanical transformation or
    translation of the Source form.


Permission for Use and Modification Without Distribution

(1)  You are permitted to use the Standard Version and create and use
Modified Versions for any purpose without restriction, provided that
you do not Distribute the Modified Version.


Permissions for Redistribution of the Standard Version

(2)  You may Distribute verbatim copies of the Source form of the
Standard Version of this Package in any medium without restriction,
either gratis or for a Distributor Fee, provided that you duplicate
all of the original copyright notices and associated disclaimers.  At
your discretion, such verbatim copies may or may not include a
Compiled form of the Package.

(3)  You may apply any bug fixes, portability changes, and other
modifications made available from the Copyright Holder.  The resulting
Package will still be considered the Standard Version, and as such
will be subject to the Original License.


Distribution of Modified Versions of the Package as Source

(4)  You may Distribute your Modified Version as Source (either gratis
or for a Distributor Fee, and with or without a Compiled form of the
Modified Version) provided that you clearly document how it differs
from the Standard Version, including, but not limited to, documenting
any non-standard features, executables, or modules, and provided that
you do at least ONE of the following:

    (a)  make the Modified Version available to the Copyright Holder
    of the Standard Version, under the Original License, so that the
    Copyright Holder may include your modifications in the Standard
    Version.

    (b)  ensure that installation of your Modified Version does not
    prevent the user installing or running the Standard Version. In
    addition, the Modified Version must bear a name that is different
    from the name of the Standard Version.

    (c)  allow anyone who receives a copy of the Modified Version to
    make the Source form of the Modified Version available to others
    under

	(i)  the Original License or

	(ii)  a license that permits the licensee to freely copy,
	modify and redistribute the Modified Version using the same
	licensing terms that apply to the copy that the licensee
	received, and requires that the Source form of the Modified
	Version, and of any works derived from it, be made freely
	available in that license fees are prohibited but Distributor
	Fees are allowed.


Distribution of Compiled Forms of the Standard Version
or Modified Versions without the Source

(5)  You may Distribute Compiled forms of the Standard Version without
the Source, provided that you include complete instructions on how to
get the Source of the Standard Version.  Such instructions must be
valid at the time of your distribution.  If these instructions, at any
time while you are carrying out such distribution, become invalid, you
must provide new instructions on demand or cease further distribution.
If you provide valid instructions or cease distribution within thirty
days after you become aware that the instructions are invalid, then
you do not forfeit any of your rights under this license.

(6)  You may Distribute a Modified Version in Compiled form without
the Source, provided that you comply with Section 4 with respect to
the Source of the Modified Version.


Aggregating or Linking the Package

(7)  You may aggregate the Package (either the Standard Version or
Modified Version) with other packages and Distribute the resulting
aggregation provided that you do not charge a licensing fee for the
Package.  Distributor Fees are permitted, and licensing fees for other
components in the aggregation are permitted. The terms of this license
apply to the use and Distribution of the Standard or Modified Versions
as included in the aggregation.

(8) You are permitted to link Modified and Standard Versions with
other works, to embed the Package in a larger work of your own, or to
build stand-alone binary or bytecode versions of applications that
include the Package, and Distribute the result without restriction,
provided the result does not expose a direct interface to the Package.


Items That are Not Considered Part of a Modified Version

(9) Works (including, but not limited to, modules and scripts) that
merely extend or make use of the Package, do not, by themselves, cause
the Package to be a Modified Version.  In addition, such works are not
considered parts of the Package itself, and are not subject to the
terms of this license.


General Provisions

(10)  Any use, modification, and distribution of the Standard or
Modified Versions is governed by this Artistic License. By using,
modifying or distributing the Package, you accept this license. Do not
use, modify, or distribute the Package, if you do not accept this
license.

(11)  If your Modified Version has been derived from a Modified
Version made by someone other than you, you are nevertheless required
to ensure that your Modified Version complies with the requirements of
this license.

(12)  This license does not grant you the right to use any trademark,
service mark, tradename, or logo of the Copyright Holder.

(13)  This license includes the non-exclusive, worldwide,
free-of-charge patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell,
sell, import and otherwise transfer the Package with respect to any
patent claims licensable by the Copyright Holder that are necessarily
infringed by the Package. If you institute patent litigation
(including a cross-claim or counterclaim) against any party alleging
that the Package constitutes direct or contributory patent
infringement, then this Artistic License to you shall terminate on the
date that such litigation is filed.

(14)  Disclaimer of Warranty:
THE PACKAGE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS
IS' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES. THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR
NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY YOUR LOCAL
LAW. UNLESS REQUIRED BY LAW, NO COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTOR WILL
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THE PACKAGE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
>>>>>>> e19675c4c19429df1793d08be81f7241875187ce
